OCPBUGS-15219 Creating a Custom Ingress Controller (#66188)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-create-custom-ingress-controller.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/ingress-operator.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-create-custom-ingress-controller_{context}"]
= Creating a custom Ingress Controller

> 

Author: ty

.Prerequisites

> * You must have cluster-admin permissions to the cluster

Author: I went with:
```* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.```

Thank you!

* You must create a custom wildcard certificate for the custom domain.

.Procedure

. Define the ingress controller using this basic template:
+
[source,yaml]
----

> # cat custom-ingress-controller.yaml

Author: ty

apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
    name: custom
    namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
defaultCertificate:
    name: custom-ingress-custom-certs

> domain: "custom-domain.mycompany.com"

Reviewer: Like this: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#signs-and-symbols-in-code-blocks

> domain: "custom-domain.mycompany.com"

Author: This is a vanilla, foundational bare-bones custom ingress controller...additional configuration can be added but won't be added at this step in the process.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/ingress-operator.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-create-custom-ingress-controller_{context}"]
= Creating a custom Ingress Controller

> As a cluster administrator, you can create a new custom Ingress Controller. Because the default Ingress Controller might be updated during {product-title} upgrades, creating a custom Ingress Controller can be helpful when maintaining a configuration manually that persists across cluster upgrades.

Reviewer 2: We [want](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/term_glossary.adoc#update) update rather than upgrade
```suggestion
As a cluster administrator, you can create a new custom Ingress Controller. Because the default Ingress Controller might change during {product-title} updates, creating a custom Ingress Controller can be helpful when maintaining a configuration manually that persists across cluster updates.
```

> This example provides a minimal spec for a custom Ingress Controller. To further customize your custom Ingress Controller, see "Configuring the Ingress Controller".

Author: @melvinjoseph86 please specifically review the concepts presented here as this is accurate to last known info, please confirm.
@jeana-redhat just so you can follow along

.Prerequisites

* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

. Create a YAML file that defines the custom `IngressController` object:
+
.Example `custom-ingress-controller.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
    name: <custom_name> <1>
    namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:

> defaultCertificate: <2>
>     name: custom-ingress-custom-certs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
defaultCertificate:
    name: custom-ingress-custom-certs <2>
```

Below, you have "Set `spec.defaultCertificate` to the name of the secret with the custom wildcard certificate." - seems like this is the line they would change it on?

> domain: <custom_domain> <3>

Reviewer 2: I would get QE to check these indents, usually things are indented under `spec` in YAML configs

Author: Melvin did a great job with this, TY

> domain: <custom_domain> <3>

Reviewer 3: ```
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
    name: <custom_name> (1)
    namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
    defaultCertificate:
        name: <custom-ingress-custom-certs> (2)
    replicas: 1 (3)
    domain: <custom_domain> (4)
```

Author: ty

----
<1> Specify the a custom `name` for the `IngressController` object.

> <2> Set `spec.defaultCertificate` to the name of the secret with the custom wildcard certificate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<2> Specify the name of the secret with the custom wildcard certificate.
```

> <3> Specify the `domain` to your domain name. The domain specified on the `IngressController` object and the domain used for the certificate must match. For example, if the `domain` value is `"custom_domain.mycompany.com"`, then the certificate must have SAN `\*.custom_domain.mycompany.com` (with the `.*`. added to the domain).

Reviewer 2: I think you need this here to make that format how you want: 
```suggestion
<3> Specify the `domain` to your domain name. The domain specified on the `IngressController` object and the domain used for the certificate must match. For example, if the `domain` value is `"custom_domain.mycompany.com"`, then the certificate must have SAN `\*.custom_domain.mycompany.com` (with the `\*.` added to the domain).
```

Author: I don't want the backslash- it was just there so the * didn't create a random bolded section. I'll try backticks without the backslash and hope it builds right.

> <3> Specify the `domain` to your domain name. The domain specified on the `IngressController` object and the domain used for the certificate must match. For example, if the `domain` value is `"custom_domain.mycompany.com"`, then the certificate must have SAN `\*.custom_domain.mycompany.com` (with the `.*`. added to the domain).

Reviewer 2: > the certificate must have SAN `\*.custom_domain.mycompany.com`

I feel like something is missing in this sentence for it to parse, but I don't know this content well enough to say what

Author: I'll admit that it's clunky but I lack the knowledge to smooth it. Melvin had a comment below but it didn't read better IMO.

> <3> Specify the `domain` to your domain name. The domain specified on the `IngressController` object and the domain used for the certificate must match. For example, if the `domain` value is `"custom_domain.mycompany.com"`, then the certificate must have SAN `\*.custom_domain.mycompany.com` (with the `.*`. added to the domain).

Reviewer 3: <3> Minimum replica needs to be ONE
<4>  Specify the `domain` to your domain name. The domain specified on the `IngressController` object and the domain used for the certificate must match. For example, if the `domain` value is `"custom_domain.mycompany.com"`, then the certificate must have SAN `\*.custom_domain.mycompany.com` (with the `\*.` added to the domain) (Example if `custom` is the name of the controller then we can name the domain as `custom.< oc get dns.config cluster -ojson | jq '.spec.baseDomain'>`).

Author: @melvinjoseph86 The added example does not make sense with the sample code or other example. It also adds in commands we haven't explained. Can you explain in further detail? Do we need more information here?

Reviewer 3: we can go ahead without this suggestion.

> . Apply the file to create the object:

Reviewer 2: (You can leave "apply" in there if you want, just need "by running the following command")
```suggestion
. Create the object by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc apply -f custom-ingress-controller.yaml

Reviewer 3: you use `create` instead of `apply` like below, as there will not be any existing custom controller to apply the configs.
 $ oc create -f custom-ingress-controller.yaml

Author: Changed to "create"

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/ingress-operator.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-create-custom-ingress-controller_{context}"]
= Creating a custom Ingress Controller

As a cluster administrator, you can create a new custom Ingress Controller with the `Unmanaged` DNS management policy.

.Prerequisites

* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

> . Create a custom ingress controller file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a custom Ingress Controller file.
```

Author: ty

> .. Create a file that defines the custom ingress controller custom resource (CR):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Create a file that defines the custom Ingress Controller custom resource (CR):
```

Author: ty

+
.Example `custom-ingress-controller.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:

>     name: custom<1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    name: <custom_name> <1>
```

Author: ok

    namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
defaultCertificate: <2>
    name: custom-ingress-custom-certs

> domain: "custom-domain.mycompany.com"<3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
domain: <"custom_domain.mycompany.com"> <3>
```

Reviewer: User replaced values should use an underscore: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#command-syntax-for-replaceable-values

Reviewer: I would also suggest adding a space between the callout and the code.

Author: Yeah I like the space better

----

> <1> Specify the `<name>` with a name for the `IngressController` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Specify a custom `name` for the `IngressController` object.
```

Author: oh!

Author: I definitely copied this straight from another procedure which probably needs work.

<2> Set `spec.defaultCertificate` to the name of the secret with the custom wildcard certificate.

> <3> Specify the `domain` to your domain name. The domain specified on the IngressController object and the domain used for the certificate must match. For example, if the IngressController has domain: custom-domain.mycompany.com, then the certificate must have SAN *.custom-domain.mycompany.com (with *. added to the domain).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Specify the `domain` to your domain name. The domain specified on the `IngressController` object and the domain used for the certificate must match. For example, if the `domain` value is `"custom-domain.mycompany.com"`, then the certificate must have `SAN *.custom-domain.mycompany.com` (with the `*`. added to the domain).
```

Author: ty
